---
title: Agda-Material
date: 2026-01-01
description: From the project website.
tags:
- code navigation
- websites
- Agda
---

# About Agda-Material

[Agda-Material] supports **generation of websites** with
**highlighted, hyperlinked listings** of (plain or literate) Agda source code,
optionally with **versioning**.

See the **[README]** page for how to create a repository for using
Agda-Material.

See the **[User Guide]** for a summary of how to use Agda-Material.

## Background

Agda can generate highlighted, hyperlinked HTML pages from a root module,
automatically generating a separate page for each imported module. But it is
left to the user to incorporate the generated pages in a website, and to
publish the website.

Agda-Material automates the steps that Agda leaves to the user. After creating
a GitHub repository from the Agda-Material template and adding Agda source
files, some simple `make` commands generate a website with highlighted,
hyperlinked listings of one or more root modules and their imported modules,
and publish the website on GitHub Pages – optionally with multiple versions.

## Main features

After adjusting the argument default settings in the `Makefile` to specify
one or more root modules and source directories with your Agda code, you
can generate, browse, and deploy a website using simple `make` comamnds:

  - **Automatic regeneration**:
    `make web` generates or updates web pages from Agda source code.

  - **Local preview**:
    `make serve` builds the website and lets you browse it.

  - **Automatic publication**:
    `make deploy` publishes or updates the built website.

  - **Optional versioning**:
    `make deploy VERSION=...` publishes or updates the specified version.

## Generated websites

The websites have the following features.

  - **Navigation menu**:
    a generated hierarchical menu with links to all imported Agda modules.
    Each page shows the path to the current page (so-called breadcrumbs).

  - **Hyperlinks**:
    clicking on a name in a generated web page jumps to its declaration
    and shows the location of the module in the navigation hierarchy.
    
    If the website includes plain HTML pages generated by Agda,
    clicking on the module name in a page with navigation jumps to the
    corresponding HTML page, and *vice versa*.

  - **Highlighted occurrences**:
    hovering over a name highlights *all* its occurrences on the page.

  - **Light or dark**:
    users can toggle between light, dark, and automatic color palettes.

  - **Responsive page layout**:
    for browsing on tablets and mobile devices as well as desktop displays.

  - **Versioning**:
    when multiple versions of a website have been published, a version can be
    set as the default, and users can switch between versions in the browser.

  - **Search**:
    the browser displays all files that contain occurrences of any of the words
    specified in the search field.[^1]

[^1]:
    Search works best for websites where each page is divided into small
    sections. It is currently of limited use for websites generated from
    large Agda modules. Moreover, it appears that some ASCII characters
    do not produce the expected results (even when escaped by `\`).

## Examples of use

The [Agda-Material] website is generated using different releases of the
[agda-material repository]. Each version of the website correponds to a
minor release of the repository, updated to reflect the latest patches.

### Denotational semantics in Agda

The [XDS-Agda] website includes experimental Agda embeddings of three separate
denotational definitions. The different versions of the website show how the
embeddings have evolved.

### Agda standard library

The [Agda-StdLib] website is a prototype generated using the same Makefile
as the [Agda-Material] website. The different versions of the website
correspond to released versions of the library, and show how the library has
evolved.

### TypeTopologyDocs

The [TypeTopologyDocs] website is a prototype of an alternative rendering of
the official [TypeTopology] website, and is unversioned. The Makefile used to
generate it currently differs slightly from the Makefile used for the
[Agda-Material] website.

[Agda-Material]: https://pdmosses.github.io/agda-material/default/about/
[README]: https://pdmosses.github.io/agda-material/default/
[User Guide]: https://pdmosses.github.io/agda-material/default/user-guide/
[XDS-Agda]: https://pdmosses.github.io/xds-agda/sub/
[Agda-StdLib]: https://pdmosses.github.io/agda-stdlib/nav/default/
[TypeTopology]: https://martinescardo.github.io/TypeTopology/
[TypeTopologyDocs]: https://pdmosses.github.io/TypeTopology/